# Sprint 3
Mason Hyman - Netid: gbb823 - Github: masonhyman-school

## What you planned to do?
In this sprint I planned to assist in the linking of the front and backends of our project. This included setting up a Ubuntu 20.04 server VM to host our service, adding special printing to the command line tool for easier parsing, and general bug fixes / QOL features. I also planned to implement OS fingerprinting for target hosts on the backend CLI tool.

## What you did not do? 
I did not get to fully implement OS fingerprinting because I underestimated its vast complexity. For a fully fledged OS fingerprinting service, many more hours and a lot more knowledge would be neccessary.

## What problems you encountered?
Linking the CLI tool to the web interface was much more challenging than expected. I am not very savvy with web development anyway so this provided a challange for both myself and the team to figure out.

I also had to learn a ton about raw sockets and how to create custom TCP packets complete with TCP and IP headers. This took quite a large chunk of time resulting in a very valued 100 lines of code haha.

## Issues you worked on?
* Finish fast mode scanning - [Issue 10](https://github.com/masonhyman-school/spvs/issues/10)
* Implement raw packet utility - [Issue 14](https://github.com/masonhyman-school/spvs/issues/14)
* Print output as a table - [Issue 33](https://github.com/masonhyman-school/spvs/issues/33)
* Create server VM - [Issue 34](https://github.com/masonhyman-school/spvs/issues/34)
* Link front & backend - [Issue 35](https://github.com/masonhyman-school/spvs/issues/35)

## Files you worked on?
* spvs/spvs_cli/src/main.cpp
* spvs/spvs_cli/src/tcpip.c

Assisted with files:

* spvs/spvs_server/app.js
* spvs/spvs_server/public/javascript/index.js

## What you accomplished?
In this sprint I wrapped up the majority of the implementation for the CLI tool. It now servers as a fully functioning port scanner with file and range support as well as service detection. I also created a raw packet creation tool in tcpip.c that will be used to analyze TCP/IP packet responses from targets. This will allow the tool to make an educated guess on what operating system the target host is running.

In addition to what I accomplished, the team worked together to link the front and backends of our service.