# Product Requirements

## Background
Often times, when diagnosing and analyzing networks, users are looking for easy-to-use tools that make the job simple and quick. SPVS, or Simple Port and Vulnerability Scanner, will do exactly that. Through the use of a light-weight UNIX tool in conjunction with a front-end graphical experience, users will be able to quickly scan their networks for open ports and potential vulnerabilities.

## Product Overview
As stated above, SPVS is a simple to use port scanning utility that can be used on a command line or in a browser. This modularity is key to SPVS's goal of creating a simple, yet effective network tool. At its core, SPVS will be a standard C/C++ UNIX tool such that it merges into the Linux and Mac experiences nicely. Additionally, the SPVS team will host a service that allows for users to scan directly from a hosted server, bypassing the need for install or any deep technical knowledge. This web service will utilize the SPVS tool, but present usage options to users in a more friendly and graphical form. Both versions will be fully fledged editions of SPVS with no features limited to either side, however the personal install will provide users with the ability to pipe input and output to other common UNIX tools. 

## Features
Below are a list of intended features based on user stories:

* Feature: Target specification through file / file upload.
   * User: As a network admin, I want to analyze commonly open ports across my network from an already populated list of hosts, so that I have a 	  greater degree of visability.
* Feature: Easy to use web front end for non-technical individuals or organizations.
   * User: As a small buisness owner, I was advised not to leave SSH open on my server. I want to check whether that port is open first before I  	  troubleshoot closing the port, so that I may save time in the event that SSH is not open.
* Feature: Provide host detection through multiple protocols.
   * User: As a remote worker, I want to check whether my server is online, however the company has blocked ICMP requests so the ping command    
     will not work. Instead I want to use SPVS which has the option to perform TCP host detection so that I may determine my server's status.
* Feature: Service fingerprinting for more robust output.
   * User: As a cyber security researcher, I can tell that my compromised machine is sending malicious information over the internet. I want to    	  use SPVS so that I can tell what ports are open and what services the attackers may be exploiting.

## Technologies

* C / C++
* NodeJS
* HTML / CSS / JavaScript